hello want to see a magic
trick greenzo
[Music]
pixel we got some cool stuff to do today
p.m. this is still getting some views
I'm hoping it'll eventually get into the
algorithm it might we'll see about
that some Finance
end to be fair that's not a bad idea I
do need to find some ways to demonetize
some
stuff all right so uh a couple quick
things and then we will start
on the goal for today which is going to
be to get the SE environment to run
purely in the browser uh we're going to
do some neuronet Devy and a few other
things couple quick things I'd like to
point out here Jung is doing some
awesome stuff with
puffer so you can go ahead and follow
him
but other than that it looks like we've
gotten at least some nice reception to
uh to this on Twitter so I'm happy to
see
this let's get started on doing some
proper Dev
though oh yeah the one other
thing
repository
966 we might actually hit a thousand
which would be amazing
let's get started on
this so we have the C client working um
now to get this to build for
web it shouldn't be that hard right
embed
file I think I just have to
embed a few different files right
so
build
M.C and then
what files does this need
this all of
them uh I think there are a couple more
right game map
numpy I don't know if it's uh if the
command if you have to specify the flag
this way it might just be a whole list
of
them okay and now
RB source so we have to copy RB
over see what this
does right EMCC needs to be active
uh I forgot about
that let me go look up what they I
forget how to activate this thing I've
also heard that maybe there's a way that
you don't need this
welcome YouTube folks
okay
what the
heck how did this
run this doesn't have any Types on
it
wait
what that's weird
wait there's got to be something wrong
here
right am I just forgetting no this
actually builds okay I actually don't
know how the heck that
builds without the types on stuff
and
also okay
right this is per window
this is doing
something we do do technically have a
game HTML
here uh can I actually like play
it it can't be this easy right I was
expecting to have to deal with a ton of
[__] well so I have to put this in
puff Ray I get habo right so I have to
like copy
build T slash
Docker AI get
iio
docs uh
okay so now
okay so this does not build it looks
like
error no
uh failed to
load I think this has to be
built this might have to be built hold
on e
okay I
got a bunch of spam garbage and then
there was something up
here oh this is
good okay so now we actually do have oh
wait the snake game doesn't work either
the Snake Game definitely
works do I have to push this to test
it oh wait it was
um I think you had to do like HTTP
server yeah yeah I'm remembering now
okay so there's you need to actually be
running
okay so now we have the snake one
working locally
right oops not settings
out of
memory
what is this because of the uh the AI
pathing
this is probably aiad thing
right control
shift yeah it shows you how much web dev
I
do so I kind of I'm realizing here I
have 250 megabytes worth of pre-computed
pathing that can't be client side right
that's a
problem what do I do about
that that's actually kind of
tricky well I'm assuming this is the
error in the first place but like
regardless we can't have 250 Megs worth
of stuff that has to load in a web page
um I totally forgot about that so that's
like nothing F that's like nothing thing
in an app
right so the thing that's going on
here is there is
a 128x 128 by 128
tensor that contains the uh the
direction that you should move so if
you're anywhere on the map 128 by 128
right that's the first
two and you want to get to any other
position on the map that's the second
128 by 128 then it tells you the
direction that you should move so
basically it lets you fully automate the
creep pathing and
such and this handles obstacles and
everything so yeah this is going to be
the thing that we have to hack around
I'm actually I'm very surprised though
like why does this just straight up
o yeah it's a really cool technique
right but why the heck does this thing
just straight up
o does it take long to bake like 3
seconds and it's pre-computed
well I guess we'll have to like remove
this for now which is really
obnoxious I don't know what we're going
to do without this though
I mean this was like a really cool thing
that I came up
with
right maybe I can run the little demmo
for
you mhm test
PFS okay so here it
is so this is what we're precomputing
here look how fast this is right like
literally anywhere I put this on the map
I get the optimal uh path to here and if
I go on like you know uh an obstacle
then there's no optimal
path really snazzy
right and like this will run as fast as
you want it to run because it's not
actually having to compute
paths in fact I could make this thing
substantially faster because right now
this client is in
Python but if we can't store these paths
then what are we going to do because
like the creeps have to come around this
way they have to path
right and then like the neutrals right
if the neutrals have to pass to
you they'll get stuck on the terrain if
they don't have these
Maps like if they don't have the maps
they'll get stuck on the terrain
I guess we'll have to add like a backup
thing for
now yeah but you can't do like you're
not going to be running
AAR in real time it's just not going to
happen well like technically I could do
it for this
demo hold on okay this is incredibly
obnoxious but technically what I could
do is I could put the fall back to do it
in real
time and then when you actually train
stuff right you use the optimized
one Ah that's a lot of
work I've not had enough coffee for this
today man
Fair Point I'm not sure that the OM is
from
that but I mean I'm baking the
uh come
on few few gigs of
buffer well okay here
you can see that the web assembly here
is 268
Megs of web
assembly why why is that o it that's
actually a really good
question let's just add the fallback
anyways because like we know that we're
not going to be able to download 250
Megs right unless it's going to cash it
like will your browser cash that so like
if you only have to do it once but I
think it's still going to be too
obnoxious like 250 Megs for a browser
thing is
ridiculous I think that's still
ridiculous like this
is I actually don't even like know why
this is
182 KB of
JavaScript that's rough anyway it really
shouldn't be that rough
hello can you bake it in wasam well
that's what it this is do doing right
here
right this is the data being baked into
wasam technically I could generate the
data client side and that would add 3
seconds to the load time instead of
having to add 250 Megs of download to it
but I think that the Practical thing is
just going to be to have like take the a
piece of code that is used to generate
these Maps right it's in scon now I Port
it to C and then I will run it in real
time for the web version of the game and
then when you're training I'll
pre-compute
it which is just as easy
right either way I think I have to Port
this thing from scon to C
because it's either going to have to run
in the client or it's going to have to
run in real
time pre-computing
browser I I don't know if that's any
easier I guess it is a little easier
like aort
anyway yeah we can start actually maybe
the thing that you're suggesting is a
little bit easier
so I have to Port that portion to see
regardless though because I can't run
scon in
browser so I guess we'll just do that
now
right this python where is
it okay so it's only 100 lines of scyon
here really not that
bad I think we'll put this here
let's
do s
we're not doing
this going to be
map sir you say job
what not sure what you mean in
there is there no width on this I think
I thought I had a width on
this yeah there's a
width
and don't need
this now we need to unsigned
car um
[Music]
and
paths dud why is it why is the auto
complete so bad right now
now n * n time n time n
one then what is this
buffer oh yeah there's this extra buffer
object that's
needed this one doesn't need to be Malik
though
but this does need to be a
pointer Comon out syon yeah the funny
thing is this is not an
LSP this is super Maven so it should
actually be able to figure that
out there is no
LSP for
also this is wrong
all
let's just do map just take a map
I'm actually going to have to make this
little renderer in syon or in C just to
make sure it's correct aren't I
mhm in a way this is kind of
fine will you tell me what you're making
mhm
it might not be but it's kind of hard to
test
right very possible I mean regardless
though I'm going to have to change this
I can't have 250 Megs having to be
downloaded every time you load the
page so this is what we're making um I'm
currently porting this from scon to C I
made this in scon and we want to run
this in uh write this in C so it can run
anywhere including on browser the goal
for today is to have this running on the
browser and then you all will be able to
play with it
and we'll be able to train some
reinforcement learning agents on this as
well e
it'll be easier to just have these B
buffers and then what we'll do is we'll
call these flat paths and flat like this
flat so then we'll do
um I need to figure out the cast for
this it's like
this this syntax here so
and then we do the same
thing with the buffer as well
okay so now we have paths and
buffer zero and
oneops then the return one is the error
code
start start
r
c start
Plus+ that looks
good continue
red is
one yeah this is very quick to Port
and this code is brain dead so it should
just be able to Port the rest of
this and I don't have to worry about it
too much because if it gets it
wrong we uh we
have
options we're going to be able to
visualize this anyways
want to thank you for being a huge
inspiration with your work on puffer and
neural MMO thank you
we have so much cool stuff coming as
well we have so much cool stuff coming
soon I got to wake up today I'm just
like real tired today oh I
know duh I I started reincorporating
heavy deadlifts into my training and I
forgot that every time you do that it
just burns the hell out of you
neurologically for a few days here I'll
show you what we're building
so if you happen to be coming from the
iceberg video we're porting this entire
thing to see and in fact it's already
done it's already ported it's 2,000
lines of pure c um I'm making a few
tweaks to it right now so that I can run
this on the web the goal is that today
you're going to be able to play this
online Isn't that cool
and from here it's just going to be keep
building out tons of ultra high
performance Sims in C and put them on
the web so you can play them and have
them be trainable at a million uh a
million steps per second per
GPU opening I5 is amazing yeah I really
think that open A5 was the best result
in RL like ever
and we're going to be able to
get pretty close to the training scale
like pretty close to the amount of data
that they were
processing um with this project even
just with one
GPU what do you think about RL with
gnn's um
has anybody made those really really
fast has anybody ever made those really
fast because like the thing that I'm
thinking about
right this is the type of architecture
you will get in a really sophisticated
RL
environment and it's not conceptually
this is actually very
simple geometric is so slow
yeah so right here like this is an lstm
which is the entire network this is
almost all the parameters of the entire
network are right here and then this is
a really fancy encoder to deal with
structured observation data and this is
a fancy decoder to take all the
different types of
actions but if you actually look at it
like the vast majority of the parameters
just in that
lstm so basically the only value will be
as if you can make that type of
architecture compile very efficiently
let's Port this to C2 so that we can
play around with
this was it say grid
render yeah we're going to Port this to
c as
well oh I forgot that this uses the old
grid renderer
no this will be slightly more
complicated then but not that
bad I want to look at doing some GNN
stuff and see or Jacks to make it faster
but super busy yeah tough
like Honestly
though I think we can probably just be a
little bit clever about about the way we
structure our observation data and we
can probably just Shred the vast
majority of problems out there with RL
just as is if we can just make the Sims
fast
I mean I think if like I wanted to put
this online
because like people will see the snake
demo and go like oh okay it's snake like
whatever right but like when we are at
the point that we can put this MOA in
the browser then you can kind of see
that there's something here is it C or
scon so this is scon we're about to Port
this to see though we're porting the
scon to see and I'll show you right now
I already ported the rest of the game
here's 2,000 lines of C for the
mooba you can use either
one you can use C or scyon uh
performance- wise doesn't make a
difference the C is really nice because
we can compile it to web assembly which
is the main reason I'm doing
this and frankly it's just as easy if
not somewhat
easier the one thing I really miss from
uh syon though is I missed the memory
views feature sion's memory view feature
is
amazing I don't want anything else from
it I don't want classes I don't want
anything else I just want the memory
view
feature it's really
nice all right
so oh yeah my yeah hold
on for some reason my C files don't work
with my uh super
Maven I'm going to rename this to a h
temporarily just so I get the auto
completes hello not
working that's weird
oh there now it works
cool right
yeah I no they're definitely things that
I really like from syon as well
the the interoperability though between
Python like scon and C is somewhat
obnoxious there's a lot of binding glue
that you have to
[Music]
do this is
fine I don't like that this Al I would
prefer that it's
cect recommended carbs any other
interesting contenders for hyper
parameter
opt there are probably some algorithms
out there that are good but
like so here's the funny thing in my
video like I know this is literally two
days ago we had a bug in carbs that made
the performance way worse than it should
be so it's literally way better than
even I than uh the results that I showed
in the
video um yeah carbs kind of just shreds
everything it's pretty cool
fine and then we
need
um
render lar
n this is where we're going to Port the
rest of
it so we'll preemptively put all this
code up
there and then
man and now we need all this
right we actually shouldn't need all
this we should only need to make the
grid
right well we'll do this for
now literally work with 100 SPS with
some g&n
stuff oh man 100 SPS is just
unbearable and to sleep see you next
time see you
around thank
you 100 SPS is
insane yeah that's
unusable I really like one of the main
things lately for me is just like
performance matters so so so much
because like see the thing is even if it
runs fast enough for you to do an
experiment right the difference between
it running fast enough for you to do
like an experiment per day versus a 100
experiments per day is the difference
between you scratching your head having
to like manually wonder about hyper
parameters and other things and just
your entire research workflow being
fully automated that's the difference
like it will literally save you months
of your life if you just have stuff be
fast I spent way too many years working
with slow stuff it's not worth
it it's really not worth
it e
we don't need this
okay so the goal here is to write a
little test script for the C port
curent sample efficiency meta annoys
me did you see my
video the uh the dreamer V3 guy dager is
also the author of the original crafter
which is like probably the most
egregious example of terribly optimized
python code slowing the field down in
existence thanks for the tips got to go
optimize use poer yeah drop by stream
lots of cool stuff Happening Here for
Dev people get really really mad about
me at me about that one by the way they
get like really mad people are really
protective of their like shitty sample
efficiency
meta and they're doing a huge disservice
to the
field because like they're like oh well
in Industry you know you can't always
run stuff fast it's like really have you
tried like what if you just made the
simulators run
faster that's one of the things I'm
going to be doing with puffer right is
like I'm sure that there are some
companies out there that are like trying
to do RL and have their stuff written in
Python you Des spend our GPU but yeah
seriously it's actually really funny cuz
like the statistical precipice paper is
technically correct about everything for
for the most part but like they missed
the point that like researchers don't
run enough experiments cuz y'all made
the research meta take too many gpus and
we can't afford to rent your gpus
Google how we going to get more cards
yeah I don't know it's silly I'm done
with it right I'm done with it I'm I'm
like I got sick of it now I'm just
rewriting the whole orl
stack like y all had your fun now things
get Rewritten
properly I'm glad some people like that
video I hope it does a little better on
YouTube it really took a long time to
produce
so like I can't really justify making
more of that content with
that you know if it doesn't get a ton of
exposure is the problem which is maybe
not a bad thing it means I get to stream
more and um you know I get to stream
more and I get to build more stuff
versus having to script out videos
the heck is
this raw
rectangle oh yeah this is fine this is
just drawing a
the cursor but this goes to the bottom
doesn't it this is going to have to go
down
there I might have to go make myself
more coffee though I'm like just so so
freaking burnt
today I'm trying to think I got good
sleep it's got to just be the
deadlifts
like I'm just neurologically
fried jeez
I going I have to switch things up so I
don't do that in the
morning I need to get my good work
done paths
equals energy how's the mobile looking
welcome
Nathan um so it runs in pure C but we
have a problem remember how we're
Computing 250 Megs worth of pathing data
but we can't just package all that
pre-computed data up and send it client
side
right so we have to redo uh the
pre-computing of pathing stuff in C and
then we have to maybe make some
adjustments that's the main thing
we're going to get it on the web today
though we have to get this on the web
today does it need to be as fast on web
no so technically we don't have to
pre-compute for the web build but I also
don't want to maintain two different
builds so I want to bring them as close
as possible I this it's good to just
have this stupid code in C
anyways cuz like technically I can
literally put this pathf finding demo
underneath the Moa to like show off our
pathing or whatever if I want to right
like none of it's going to get wasted
I'll just put it on the web page and say
like hey look at this
right that's kind of the cool thing
right like all the JavaScript nerds they
like they get to make all these things
that they get to share with people
because it's on the web right well now
it turns out that everything that we
build here is immediately sharable on
the web because C to WM
right so that's kind of fun
you're still stuck on thesis for uh a
few days here
yeah man you need the energy for
that that's like Soul crushing
work good luck with stupid code yeah
thank you
almost
there just get it done and submit it
honestly I only spent like a week on my
PhD thesis you
know on like the actual putting together
of that
paper hey
PBS yo uh I know you're a rust enjoyer
but
we've got the Moa ported to
purec it's going
well uh I just realized that I can't
this is not a desktop app so I can't
just ship 250 Megs of pre-computed data
so I have to fix that now but uh once we
fix the 250 Megs of precomputed data
Shenanigans this will just run on web
stitched a couple papers to get and
wrote a 40p intro a 40 page intro my man
I don't think that I have 40 unique
pages in my whole PhD thesis
like I think there's maybe 10 or 20
Pages Max of like stitching material
total
oh yeah PBS we've got people like making
cool environments now and contributing
them to puffer so yeah like Nathan's
making this like awesome turnbas PVP Sim
as soon as he's done with his thesis
he'll get back to that I'm sure and then
we've got people making like a couple
Atari games it's all sorts of fun stuff
can I do
like I don't want to copy
this I actually don't know the Syntax
for
this I want a reference
to is it not just like Char
star Paths of no that's an array of
pointers that's not what I
want wait this is the same weird syntax
as before isn't it yeah this is the
really goofy
thing yeah this is real goofy look like
this Shenanigans here I think
yeah it's like Star AI or is it
Paths
of
see AI
Paths
of like this or something
worth it to try to write and C directly
um I don't want to introduce too much
stuff to you all at
once so if you if you're not like if you
have not written a bunch of stuff in C
before then I wouldn't worry about it
too much like I can help you with that
for sure um
I find that it it has actually gotten to
be quite easy and quite nice now that
I'm used to it but
like I don't want to like confuse you or
discourage you by making it harder
initially if that makes
sense
right like the pros okay the nice thing
with C right is that you don't have to
worry about um you don't have to worry
about calls back back to python you
don't have to worry about The annotation
tool and your build time is instant
right the not nice thing about C is that
you don't get memory
views does it compile as nicely as syon
though oh it compiles instantly and with
way better error
messages that's the main thing
honestly you still have to write a scon
binding mind you you still have to write
a scyon binding but like if you'll
notice I'm not building with syon as I'm
testing this I'm building purec and then
I do the scon rapper separately that way
I don't have to go through sion's Jank
gigantic build
process e
but what is this
oh this is three
positions yeah
yeah hey welcome
work yeah this seems to Port nicely I
love RB yeah man everybody loves RB RB
is just amazing
rayon just writes such good
software it's like it just reminds you
that there's still good stuff out
there okay I'm hoping that this is not
screwing up uh the logic importing but
we'll be able to see from the
demo love drawing
triangles and curves
yeah it's just like lowlevel API for
stuff right it's just like honestly the
trick is always to just get a little
closer to the hardware than everyone
else and you're just done like you're
just set
right hi welcome
not using
switch not
really I'm not really a switch
enjoyer I could be converted but I don't
really see the need for it
this should just be void shouldn't
it we'll just make this method
void switches
faster is that actually
true is that actually true
is it a meaningful difference or is this
one of those things that like people
argue like um C like you know Plus+ I or
i++
Checks Plus
Jump well yeah obviously you're checking
against all these different
cases the reason I don't typically enjoy
um I don't enjoy the switch statements
it's really easy to forget a break and
and then you're just screwed
right calculated dress plus jumps since
number
Fair the reason I avoid it unless I need
it is because um yeah it's essentially
that
like if you forget the break statement
you get really weird stuff happening
well this this is um written now at
least so
test pathing right I made this as H file
because
okay for some reason I don't know why
this happens maybe it's because of my G
ignore but C does these C files don't
work
with uh super
Maven wait
what oh yeah yeah yeah that's fine we
didn't actually fix the bugs in the main
code
yet cuz we added some
stuff
so yeah I forgot
to change the function call syntax to be
C Style
it we got some semicolons know what's
new
there
25 got more
semicolons
[Music]
28 you're not allowed to do this anyways
because this has to be
defined you have to Define uh to single
pass compiler so this has to go here
okay so
1230 subscripted
value is
not array
pointer or
vector
really map star
map unsign Char oh you need map offset
okay so now we're down to
here pointer and
integer to fix this as
well run finally finished after 7
hours what are you
running safety
gem okay cool
I bet you if we sped up some of those
environments and puffer it would run in
about 7 Seconds instead of seven
hours maybe that's being a little bit
too nice to puffer maybe it would be
seven
minutes we did recently make GPU Drive
take 28 seconds instead of 2 hours
speaking of which I probably have been
ignoring their slack messages haven't
I let me open that on the side make sure
I haven't messed
up okay go away slack desktop app nobody
likes electron apps
need continuous support puffer does have
continuous
support for
I've been using puffer lately love the
speed thank you that's going to
continue currently porting this MOA to
run in uh C and also on the browser so
uh I mean I know there aren't enough
cool RL environments that are fast
right what if this thing is trainable at
like 500k plus steps per
second on one
GPU that's the current
plan we have this one I have one more
environment sort of similar to this in
complexity it's going to take me a
couple weeks to get everything fully
ported over but yeah continuous action
space support
no we do have continuous action space
support we have that in
Dev and uh you can actually see here
I'll show
you follow uh give Kung a follow on
Twitter he's been adding this stuff we
just PR
maoko y
c where is
he yeah so follow kyung on Twitter uh
let me add this cuz he's doing a lot of
this stuff for
us uh my mic is in the
way this is carb sweeps running on maoko
here Kung just joined Twitter so brand
new
here e
chatting on the side here with the GPU
Drive folks basically telling them the
little bit of info we need to make it
fast e
what's wrong with this
thing well this is wrong right
like we call this from
flat
paths yeah yeah you only
need like this I
think
oops just passing by to say you're doing
awesome work thank you hopefully I can
get around to playing with puffer once
I'm done writing my
thes I best thing I can say for the
thesis is to just try to have a little
bit of fun with the intro and just write
it super fast like I spent maybe a week
at most and it was just like pasting and
formatting all the papers together
somewhat and then writing like the
sections in between and the intro and
conclusion definitely don't overthink it
I put like I put way more effort into my
defense than I put into the uh the
document
itself like nobody's going to read that
document no matter how good it is right
it turns out that people will watch your
defense on YouTube though which is kind
of
interesting
yeah the defense talk definitely took
some time that definitely took some time
I mean good talks and good presentations
always take time
right we'll see how the new Iceberg
video does I think I delivered the uh
the cont better than in my thesis at the
very least we'll see if YouTube agrees
with
me but we're going to have a lot of cool
RL environments very soon and uh we're
definitely looking for people to help
add to these it's really not that hard
to build these you don't have to write
them in C this is just for St points
you get plus 50 to style
I have until December for the
defense thesis has to be submitted
geez third week of
October I mean I would just say straight
up be done like give yourself like three
days or four days to write it write it
and be done I don't know about you but I
absolutely hate having to do like
paperwork and stuff like that it drives
me absolutely insane like if I almost
can only spend 3 to 4 days on it like
that's the amount of time that I have
regardless of what it is because I'll go
insane after that
anyways right so this path thing doesn't
work um
Bila
yeah I don't know it's
academic writing is just feels bad
man
okay thoughts on model based RL
so kind of the viability of anything
within puffer is going to be the same as
the viability of the thing overall like
I'll invest in it if I see it going
anywhere right I think that at the
moment my intuition is that uh World
models of some form are probably going
to have some use as like an auxiliary
prediction in order to help guide models
during learning I don't think that like
doing rollouts in hallucinated space is
going to be useful in most in most
settings though like I think you have to
make the environment really stupidly
slow for no reason in order for that to
be more useful than just getting extra
data honestly if you think about it a
lot of the stuff I'm doing with puffer
lib is really brain dead like I'm not
doing any fancy algorithms I'm not doing
any like fancy math I'm just building
stuff fast and then like you can get a
you can get away with being really
really stupid when you can just run this
number of EXP experiments on stuff like
it turns out you just Auto solve
everything so I'm going to just keep
riding that until it stops working and
like it very M it like it might just be
the case that we just solve ourl before
no this stops
working which would be pretty funny
I like Auto solve RL
the heck is wrong with this
oh
wait what that e
by the way since Sim is now Ultra fast
what's currently the largest bottleneck
gradient
steps honestly like nothing
um we can shave off a little bit of time
here and there there's probably like
there's a little bit of Cuda uh bottle
like m memory transfer overhead but
like we have things stupidly fast enough
at this point
that like this is plenty at this point
like we're going to be able to pretty
much automate everything at this scale
um and then we'll start looking at
multi-gpu stuff relatively soonish
probably after we do some more
Sims and there's not really a bottleneck
anymore like the hardware only runs so
fast I totally messed up syntax here
didn't I
okay at least this is correct
nice got to go see you around thanks for
dropping by
what happened here
so I think we're missing a bracket
somewhere right yeah we missed we missed
some brackets cuz
dumb
oops oh now it works
what happened
here thank you
so we need to fix some
stuff I'm actually surprised that I got
it this good on my first
try look at this we need to render the
map
obviously I can't this is so incredibly
stupidly smooth
though like yeah we need to render the
map
now
for e
do you use any Tod Do's planning
notetaker apps nope I have no
organizational capabilities
whatsoever I hang around and write code
genius I mean I don't exactly think so I
just simply don't remember things half
the time but
whatever I don't use very much stuff at
all actually come to think of it I don't
know occasionally I'll write a Google
doc for something that's about
it workout code tweet sleep yeah
occasionally play some games not as much
as I'd like to be able to be doing but
you
know I do miss my games
hold on let me fix there's a
misunderstanding Happening
Here e
honestly the workout lately has been I
I'm pretty sure this is why I'm this
freaking exhausted today is like I
haven't done any head any heavy
deadlifts in like over a year because of
all the running I've been doing and I
started doing them back on
Wednesdays and I'm just like all woozy
from
that no is worth
it I want my four plate pull
back eat a
lemon what
[Laughter]
what I love running too keeps your mind
sane I wouldn't say I love running I
think I tolerate running and I do it
anyways because it's good for
me but I mean I hit the goal for the
summer right I did the 50k
so now I get to do a little bit more
strength
stuff Honestly though I think that the
50k like is actually decreased my
fitness because
like it's not easy to do even like a 5k
the nowadays it's like I mean maybe I'm
still recovering
but definitely
brutal I think it didn't click in my
head I was like oh it's only a few miles
longer than a marathon it didn't click
in my head that the course was so much
harder that it was going to take me an
extra two and a half
hours I don't know I put the article I
have an article on it on X but
like the thing that I didn't realize is
like you should kind of count by the
amount of time it takes you not by the
amount of miles and I didn't realize
this was going to be an extra two and a
half hours of running compared to my
previous
stuff link it
that was a hard
course I could have just done the
marathon around it and it would have
been I would have been fine but I wanted
to do the 50
not having Auto completed so Anno is so
annoying uh
color
does this thing take map what's it take
a map
oh I messed
up oops
rebuild hey guys I think this is not
what was intended
I think this is not what was intended
nice job I guess it was
painful it was really weird it was yeah
it was painful I don't know I think like
the marathon I did what might have even
been more painful it was
like the thing is the marathons were
flat and when it's flat you can kind of
always force your brain to let your legs
keep running but with the hills like I
had to hike so many of the Hills at the
end like I couldn't force my body to
like run up any incline by the end of it
like there would be like a little three
foot Hill and my brain would just like
hard shut off my legs like stuff was
failing for sure but as a result like I
mean I was able to push until I was
completely exhausted but it wasn't like
I wasn't able to push the amount of pain
that I did on like even my first
marathon for
instance my first marathon I did like
the longest run I'd done was 16 miles
and I did 26 right so that was insane
[Music]
exactly I see exper yeah yeah yeah it's
really weird
right ever tried any Indian
food I am very very white spicy does not
work with me whatsoever like at
all is the main thing I have a a pretty
sensitive digestive uh system
I've had food po like really bad food
poisoning a few times and now I have to
be really careful with what I
eat on there's like this weird
discussion going on in this Slack
okay I don't this discussion makes no
sense to me so I'm going to let them
figure it
out but yeah well I like the stuff I eat
now is incredibly incredibly boring like
I pretty much go over to Izzy every
morning and I'll get like a cup of
minone and a pizza bagel or something
and my coffee I grab like a couple
cookies for the middle of the day and
then I'll have like you know uh some
type of pasta or uh what the heck
else what have like been getting or like
you know some type of like breakfast
food like I'll get like eggs and
potatoes or something like you know for
dinner and I'll have like a protein
shake in the middle of the day that's
about
it is incredibly
boring uh we are already have times tile
size that's
wrong I got to go have a good stream
thank you thanks for dropping by I think
we got this working right
though oh yeah I got it working look at
that this feels like super buttery
smooth as well compared
[Music]
to actually this is only 30 FPS let's
make it 60 FPS because like why not
right 60fps pathing to
everywhere tell me that's not
awesome for
well that actually tells us that we're
pretty much good to go
right so um
oh wait wait wait no no no this only
tells us that the renderer is good we
haven't actually checked the pathing my
bad yeah yeah yeah my bad
okay so there's this read file
right yeah I'm just I feel really
stupid and not I'm going to be honest
this is real
stupid okay and map grid so we do
um
find car
yeah let's do
this then we get rid of
this
right and then we do
this is really let's just move
name. c
test.
h there we
go this
the
grid and then we do the AI paths which
are right
here okay and then we do
renderer
map AI paths
map
map okay like
this and
don't need any of this
anymore and our paths are wrong now
right paths are
wrong so we have to fix all this
right lots of stuff to
fix lots of stuff to fix
compute
pathing D dust source source
YX
YX that looks good
Paths of address like
this
buffer it's pass here
well shoot I'm going to have to debug
all this stuff right
why are we checking the path data here
for
because we fill it in
right oh but is it supposed to be 255 at
the
start hold on yeah yeah look it's
supposed to be 255 at the start that's
what's
wrong so that's
fine not that stupid
does it all have to be
255 yeah it all has to be 255 right
yeah like this
okay it's actually Computing
something and we
get out of
bounds e
test pathing
oh wait it's right
here according to this it's here
something's in the buffer that's
wrong okay the buffer is 8 * n *
n size of in
isn't this what it
is is it size
three hold
on how big is this buffer supposed to
be 8 by N byn by3 I messed
up but wait how does it work
it's 8 *
n why is it 8 * n *
n oh eight directions okay that's
fine e
that it took a little longer I think
than the scon version but we also have
the address sanitizer
on okay so interestingly
um these paths look correct to
me but it's not drawing them all the
way up for some
reason that's really weird
so we'll figure that
out oh wait does that mean hold
on yeah yeah yeah look look it's just
cuz
right wait
what r r less than n c c less than
n wait what
did you do this
backwards I don't think it matters but
maybe it
does is that going to make it take
longer Let's
see we also have a dress sanitizer on
which I think slows it down right
okay that fixed
it so I mean that took a little bit of
work right but now as a result we
have we have the ability to generate
this path binding data in
purey and honestly if I were not this
exhausted this would not have even been
that
hard I don't know I got to figure out
where the energy has been going
lately
but it's cool
I want to see what happens if I take off
the
um f
sanitize address
and the dash
J okay that's actually now it's faster
than the scon code if you actually
compile it without all the extra
junk it's
faster so with very little effort it's
uh it's quite good
now yeah obviously address sanitizer is
going to make it take
longer so now we have this done
um let's see if we can get the
pre-compute pathing here
I'm not going to do size of unsigned car
that's
ridiculous Rec compute
pathing oh this allocates it for
us so literally it's a on line change
now it's just going to
be like this right
and now we get to do
build uh local
right and then we do this thing do MOBA
game and now it should take a while to
load because we have it with all the
compilation Flags doing the
pre-computing
did our puers go to
uh did they go fight let's
see oh yeah look this one's going why do
we only have one minion oh the others
are already here fighting
cool so it looks like they're
pathfinding just
fine go my
puffers I'm in your base killing your
dudes I think they're going to kill me
here oh no we got the distract on
them I
value I think this is pretty
solid so now the question is does this
compile me
leaks we'll fix these These are easy to
fix but I want to see if I can compile
this to web assembly first
and all that we have to do
is we take out this embed here this is
the 250 megabyte in
bed takes it a
second and then we
let's not hit enter
here
opy build
okay so now we have
this uh copied right
Snake Game
Works what about this
game oops
o should not be
oing air what
what's
wrong I hate JavaScript
JavaScript is
awful I was writing in C so I literally
wouldn't have to touch
this why am I touching
JavaScript cannot grow memory
is there like a
Max is there a Max for the page or
something dumb I don't know about
doesn't the stack doesn't tell you
anything I don't
know when I be this stupid GPD
can you just build with more memory like
this about 2 GB
well that's totally fine
it initial memory
got to recompile
okay file not
found let's see what we get in
here get puffer MOBA
right and we probably have
whoops still out of
memory for
like this S
assertions I did build with s assertions
what's
up e
is it just not building correctly with
this hold
on I didn't
rebuild that was dumb
okay hold
on
Oho look at
that we get actual errors now
okay so we have Shader versioning
[__] but we're almost we're almost
having this run on the web
that'll be fun
okay so we have to figure out what
version of web is running
um e
might be running on a webgl
this is the flag that I was looking for
and I shouldn't have to do this portion
because EMCC should just do it I
think so many bloody
flags all right
remake no issues found
we get the puffer MOBA game
right now no errors
oops we wait for the page
does it just run really slow is that
what's
happening let me just try something real
quick
I'm just going to set all these paths to
zero
essentially and then I'm going
to build web
oops move the files
over
then we're going to rebuild
no errors
so now the path thing is wrong because
obviously I uh I adjusted
it but like the game should
run I hate
JavaScript I hate the whole web because
system it [__]
why is this
can I like
log what the [__] is wrong with this tab
it literally doesn't let me paste that's
so
stupid It Go
just gone
okay I don't know where my just freaking
chat went
does snake still
work yeah snake still works
right it works like perfectly as
well
man this like doesn't work no errors
thing is kind of [__]
I'm not going to
lie are there no sources
what right here it says get get build
right game JS LOM HTML
is it just not hold
on why where are why are there no files
holy hell this is
dumb why is stuff not even load now
that's
nuts okay so when I do this right I hit
control shift I made a whole bunch of
logging webg
1.0
for e
say we have two which we
should web
NN wait is this a thing
e
e e
it should be freaking
working I really don't want to have to
rewrite this Shader in web in uh with a
super old version of glsl in order to
make it work on web that's like
ridiculous
right e
okay for
are we doing
webgl uh what we're doing is called
suffering I we just have glsl we just
have normal shaders and like shit's not
compiling
well like this works right this this is
totally
fine and then if I go
back this just doesn't work slash
crashes with no
errors we don't get any logs
writing for webgl 1.0 is just so garbage
like it doesn't have
anything I guess it has a few things it
has like
sign here let me just paste the Shader
in and
see hold on let me just do one thing I'm
not going to trust GP deported but I'm
going to see if it says that
there's
yeah where do I enable that
so there's like a fair bit of crap I'd
have to change web. enable prototype
where is
that 2016
yeah but what is here right
and like if everybody's going to have to
enable this [__]
like doesn't do anything right
and I don't even think I get any errors
is the
issue yeah see like if I swap it to use
if I swap the build to use webg one it's
fine but then when I use two it just
throws a hissy fit I don't
know should I just start working on
porting this thing to to uh one if two
is like
unstable am I wrong here is two is web
ja 2 generally considered like stable
and supported and something's just crazy
here or is it more reasonable to have to
do this in
one like I'm not even getting these like
these load statements or anything for
changing into
attribute see if you can
run
okay okay so these do run right
so maybe this is not the
issue
e e
h
does he have any examples on
this let me
check it's strange no erir yeah I don't
know what the heck is going on with this
is driving me
nuts
shaders I mean we have here
shaders are yeah look they use openg
G3 wait
what does this thing here does it need
to be
compatible with
uh gel
if defined platform
desktop that make sense hold on let me
close the
door what in the
heck so it looks like these are actually
they have like
one platform
10 maybe there is actually like an M
script in
limitation let me just try to Port this
real quick just to
see cuz like technically I can Port this
to
1 let me try cuz I actually I'll be able
to tell whether this is good or not very
quickly
why can't I copy and paste stuff come
on there
local okay so the frag Shader doesn't
work I'm just gonna freaking
I'm going to use this to like just do
the initial
portion is this thing dumb
huh how is this user uninitialized
so all it has is lurp used uninitialized
I don't understand how this is
uninitialized e
is it like a
reserved why can't
I is there something wrong with
this
61 okay hold on
why
I don't understand this freaking thing
is it actually
10.0
stupid okay so now we have a Shader of
some
type doesn't seem to be a good
Shader probably we need to pass
something in
here e
pass texture size as a uniform from
JS resolution is this
it for
okay we need to do renderer Shader
resolution which is
how do
I what do I freaking pass this
as get the location obvious
yeah ah so it should be a float three
Three G
resolution wait but is that how it
works Jer
X Rader camera
X these are
floats get Shader
okay and then
so freaking confused by
this Shader camera X and then there's
Shader X
right okay and you use both
it's an
INT e
now we have to do the resolution
and the fact that I'm porting this
stupid thing and it's like causing all
this
okay so it's just rendering it at some
[__] crazy ass resolution right
what even is this
green texture
size what's texture
zero texture size texture zero texture
size texture one
I think this is literally just constant
no is this not
it oh well this is closer to it right
let divide by
22 is this like
I don't think this is make sense to
60 okay like you can tell that it's
getting closer but this is some huge
resolution
I'm trying to think what this was
supposed to be
originally texture size texture
zero isn't this the screen
wait I think this is the
screen is this
correct okay so it is the screen
resolution we do have to pass the screen
res and it's still slightly off you can
see right
does this need to be like my monitor
resolution or
something oh yeah it is the monitor
resolution right
yeah uh it wobbles all around
though like this Shader is not perfectly
this
same
weird I mean we should probably see if
this even fixes it
right so let's say we do this for now
right cuz at least this lets us test
something
we also forgot to remove the weird flag
right there's uh this used web JL 2 flag
which we think was messing stuff up
make
this here's the snake
game and it
lags and there's nothing in the console
doesn't even fix
it so
I how am I supposed to debug stuff when
I'm just not getting any error messages
like why I don't why are there no errors
I don't
understand Network
tab what's this supposed to give me
why would there be anything in here it's
100% client side
so it doesn't even work if you break
everything by making it web
1.0 glad I didn't spend too long on that
um h
hallucinating yeah close close chat GPT
it's dumb as [__] um
does it think that it's actually
rendering correctly is that the thing it
thinks that the game is going
correctly it can't right
message not found hold on was there a
message not
found but if I go cck
this it just wants
these and then
it
loads and it doesn't give me the RB icon
no
issues why not
print log you can use in the
code I don't think it
will I can try I don't think it prints
whatever you do in C
right I don't think it'll print anything
that I type and
see I mean this stuff is actually you're
supposed to get this
hold on I think that if I I might be
wrong if I click this snake it's
literally just screwed up the server
hold
on okay so if I click this right you can
see I actually get all this info and I'm
not getting
this so I should
actually right I should be able to click
here I see that it's getting the
files it's lagging for I don't know why
and then there's nothing
here I'm trying to think what else I
might have had to have done to get the
snake thing working I'm trying to
remember if there was anything
else hi
welcome we're trying to get this mobu to
run on the browser it's not working for
some
reason porting the uh the Shader to web
gl1 just messed it up and didn't even
help and this looks terrible with this
hold on
yeah how does it get RB wait hold on how
does it get
RB
um I'm embedding these
files maybe it's not getting linked to
RB
correctly no it has right
here EMCC d
oh
completed uh internet is having a spike
here hold on
guys we'll see whether this cuts
out are we still up
we're dropping frames like crazy
minute it goes out every day it's
ridiculous I'm supposed to have a
gigabit and it goes out every day
it looks
like maybe we're
back we're not dropping any more
frames okay I think it might be
good
uh well I was in the middle of answering
the thing but the the long and the short
of it is you have to start building
building stuff right like you're not
going to learn to be actually build
stuff in school you have to start
building stuff on this side you have to
start making projects and stuff and like
frankly the best way that you can do
that is to forget about a lot of the o
and a lot of like the structure stuff
and to just write very simple code in
the simplest way possible
like hold
on yeah
all right this
is 2,000 lines of SE that I've been
coding
right there are a few strs there are no
fancy design patterns there's no fancy
inheritance and we're all flying
again God damn it
xinity I don't know what's happening
it's just like dipping
constantly thanks infity man
I don't know what it is like it's
usually in like the late afternoon they
just it's the time of the day
it's still
dipping I'm trying to think if I want to
go reset the router I don't think that's
going to do
anything really appreciate it start
simple build yeah you really just need
to start like don't over complicate it
though like the best advice I can give
you is just don't over complicate
it just build stuff very simple don't
try to think super hard about the design
just write stuff very simple make a
simple game or something fun
right and I wanted to give a proper
answer to that as well but it's just
like stupid stream keeps cutting out
damn it
xinity is it stable
now I'm seeing no more drop frames
be back yeah see you
around noys me as well cuz it like it
ends up splitting my vods up a bunch as
well so instead of having like one8 hour
VOD have like a bunch of shorter vods
and it's really
obnoxious I got to just get the Internet
fixed
here maybe I'll do a router reset later
tonight message delay is crazy okay
let's just fix that now while I'm
figuring some
stuff I thought there's like a uh there
should be a setting for it
Studio
set the
[Music]
router great
yeah creater studio if this thing
actually we're still dropping frames
aren't we for
we're dropping
yeah I'm going to set the after this
I'll fix the
router I don't know what the I don't
even think it's the router is the thing
unless it's just been remotely bricked
by some dumb update but
like look I don't even have block links
on and it blocks them
anyways for
go
live it should have me live now
right maybe it's here
this says live but it doesn't have the
option